plugins/network-rate-linux/README.rst, before:

.. :X-man-page-only: luastatus-plugin-network-rate-linux
.. :X-man-page-only: ###################################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: ################################################
.. :X-man-page-only: Linux-specific network rate plugin for luastatus
.. :X-man-page-only: ################################################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: :Copyright: LGPLv3
.. :X-man-page-only: :Manual section: 7

Overview
========
This derived plugin periodically polls Linux ``procfs`` for the network recieve/send rate (traffic
usage per unit of time).

Functions
=========
The following functions are provided:

* ``reader_make([iface_filter])``

    Creates a *reader* that can be used to query network rates for network interfaces that match
    the filter. If specified, ``iface_filter`` must be a function that takes a string (interface
    name) and return ``true`` if the reader should should report network rates for this interface,
    ``false`` or ``nil`` otherwise.
    If ``iface_filter`` is not specified or ``nil``, the reader will report network rates
    for all interfaces.

* ``reader_read(reader, divisor[, in_array_form])``

    Queries network rates using the given reader. ``reader`` must be a reader instance returned
    by ``reader_make``.
    For a given interface, we define a *datum* as a table of form with keys ``"R"`` and ``"S"``;
    the ``"R"``/``"S"`` fields contain the increase in the number of bytes received/sent,
    correspondingly, with this interface, since the last query with this reader, divided by
    ``divisor``. Normally, ``divisor`` should be the period with which you query the network
    rates with this reader; if not applicable, set ``divisor`` to 1 and interpret the values
    yourself.
    If ``in_array_form`` is ``true``, the result will be an array (a table with numeric keys) of
    ``{iface_name, datum}`` entries, in the same order as reported by the kernel. Otherwise (if
    ``in_array_form`` is not specified, or ``false`` or ``nill``), the result we be a dictionary
    (a table with string keys) with interface names as keys and datums as values.

* ``widget(tbl)``

    Constructs a ``widget`` table required by luastatus. ``tbl`` is a table with the following
    fields:

    **(required)**

    - ``cb``: a function

        TODO

    **(optional)**

        Note: ``iface_filter``, ``iface_only`` and ``iface_except`` are mutually exclusive.
        If neither is specified, network rates for all interfaces will be reported.

    - ``iface_filter``: a function

        If specified, this must be a function that takes a string (interface name) and return
        ``true`` if we are interested in network rates for this interface, ``false`` or ``nil``
        otherwise.

    - ``iface_only``/``iface_except``: a string or a table

        These options can be used to specify a whitelist/blacklist, correspondingly, for network
        interfaces that we are interested in.

        If it is a string, it will be interpreted as an interface name; only interface with this
        name will be whitelisted/blacklisted.

        If it is a table with numeric keys, it will be interpreted as a list of interface names
        that should be whitelisted/blacklisted.

        If it is a table with string keys, it will be interpreted as a lookup table:
        interface names that correspond to a truth-y (anything except ``false`` and ``nil``)
        value in this table will be whitelisted/blacklisted.

        If it is an empty table, no interfaces will be whitelisted/blacklisted.

    - ``in_array_form``: a boolean

        TODO

    - ``period``: a number

        TODO

    - ``in_array_form``: a boolean

    - ``event``

        The ``event`` entry of the resulting table (see ``luastatus`` documentation for the
        description of ``widget.event`` field).

Commit message:

plugins/network-rate-linux: misc improvements

plugins/network-rate-linux/README.rst, after:

.. :X-man-page-only: luastatus-plugin-network-rate-linux
.. :X-man-page-only: ###################################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: ################################################
.. :X-man-page-only: Linux-specific network rate plugin for luastatus
.. :X-man-page-only: ################################################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: :Copyright: LGPLv3
.. :X-man-page-only: :Manual section: 7

Overview
========
This derived plugin periodically polls Linux ``procfs`` for the network recieve/send rate (traffic
usage per unit of time).

Functions
=========
The following functions are provided:

* ``reader_make([iface_filter])``

    Creates a *reader* that can be used to query network rates for network interfaces that match
    the filter.

    If specified, ``iface_filter`` must be a function that takes a string (interface name) and
    return ``true`` if the reader should should report network rates for this interface,
    ``false`` or ``nil`` otherwise. If ``iface_filter`` is not specified the reader will report
    network rates for all interfaces.

* ``reader_read(reader, divisor[, in_array_form])``

    Queries network rates using the given reader. ``reader`` must be a reader instance returned
    by ``reader_make``.

    For a given interface, we define a *datum* as a table of form with keys ``"R"`` and ``"S"``;
    the ``"R"``/``"S"`` fields contain the increase in the number of bytes received/sent,
    correspondingly, with this interface, since the last query with this reader, divided by
    ``divisor``.

    Normally, ``divisor`` should be the period with which you query the network rates with this
    reader; if not applicable, set ``divisor`` to 1 and interpret the values yourself.

    If ``in_array_form`` is ``true``, the result will be an array (a table with numeric keys) of
    ``{iface_name, datum}`` entries, in the same order as reported by the kernel. Otherwise (if
    ``in_array_form`` is not specified or ``false``), the result we be a dictionary (a table
    with string keys) with interface names as keys and datums as values.

* ``widget(tbl)``

    Constructs a ``widget`` table required by luastatus. ``tbl`` is a table with the following
    fields:

    **(required)**

    - ``cb``: a function

        The callback to call each ``period`` (see below) seconds with the network rate data.
        It is called with a single argument that is equivalent to ``reader_read`` return
        value (please refer to the description of that function above).

    **(optional)**

        Note: ``iface_filter``, ``iface_only`` and ``iface_except`` are mutually exclusive.
        If neither is specified, network rates for all interfaces will be reported.

    - ``iface_filter``: a function

        If specified, this must be a function that takes a string (interface name) and return
        ``true`` if we are interested in network rates for this interface, ``false`` or ``nil``
        otherwise.

    - ``iface_only``/``iface_except``: a string or a table

        These options can be used to specify a whitelist/blacklist, correspondingly, for network
        interfaces that we are interested in.

        If it is a string, it will be interpreted as an interface name; only interface with this
        name will be whitelisted/blacklisted.

        If it is a table with numeric keys, it will be interpreted as a list of interface names
        that should be whitelisted/blacklisted.

        If it is a table with string keys, it will be interpreted as a lookup table:
        interface names that correspond to a truth-y (anything except ``false`` and ``nil``)
        value in this table will be whitelisted/blacklisted.

        If it is an empty table, no interfaces will be whitelisted/blacklisted.

    - ``in_array_form``: a boolean

        Please refer to the description of ``in_array_form`` argument to ``reader_read``
        function above.

        Defaults to ``false``.

    - ``period``: a number

        The period, in seconds, with which the callback function will be called.

        This will also be a divisor (all rates will be divided by this value
        so that the rates be per ``period`` seconds instead of 1 second). Please
        refer to the description of ``divisor`` argument to ``reader_read`` function
        above for more information.

        Defaults to 1.

    - ``event``

        The ``event`` entry of the resulting table (see ``luastatus`` documentation for the
        description of ``widget.event`` field).
