plugins/battery-linux/README.rst, before:

.. :X-man-page-only: luastatus-plugin-battery-linux
.. :X-man-page-only: ##############################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: ###########################################
.. :X-man-page-only: Linux-specific battery plugin for luastatus
.. :X-man-page-only: ###########################################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: :Copyright: LGPLv3
.. :X-man-page-only: :Manual section: 7

Overview
========
This derived plugin periodically polls Linux ``sysfs`` for the state of a battery.

It is also able to estimate the time remaining to full charge/discharge and
the current battery consumption rate.

Functions
=========
The following functions are provided:

* ``widget(tbl)``

    Constructs a ``widget`` table required by luastatus. ``tbl`` is a table with the following
    fields:

    **(required)**

    - ``cb``: function

        The callback that will be called with a table with the following keys:

        + ``status``: string

            A string with battery status text, e.g. ``"Full"``, ``"Unknown"``, ``"Charging"``,
            ``"Discharging"``.

            Not present if the status cannot be read (for example, when the battery is missing).

        + ``capacity``: number

            A percentage representing battery capacity.

            Not present if the capacity cannot be read.

        + ``rem_time``: number

            Time (in hours) remaining to full charge/discharge.

            Usually only present on battery charge/discharge.

        + ``consumption``: number

            The current battery consumption/charge rate in watts.

            Usually only present on battery charge/discharge.

    **(optional)**

    - ``dev``: string

        Device directory name under ``/sys/class/power_supply``; default is ``"BAT0"``.

    - ``period``: number

        The period in seconds for polling ``sysfs``; default is 2 seconds.

        Because this plugin utilizes ``udev`` under the hood, it is able to respond to
        battery state changes (such as cable (un-)plugging) immediately, irrespective of
        the value of the period.

    - ``event``

        The ``event`` entry of the resulting table (see ``luastatus`` documentation for the
        description of ``widget.event`` field).

Commit message:

plugins/battery-linux: introduce 'use_energy_full_design', fix a bug
The bug was that, in Lua, 's ~= 0', where 's' is a string, always
returns false, and 'p.power_now' was a string. Oops.

plugins/battery-linux/README.rst, after:

.. :X-man-page-only: luastatus-plugin-battery-linux
.. :X-man-page-only: ##############################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: ###########################################
.. :X-man-page-only: Linux-specific battery plugin for luastatus
.. :X-man-page-only: ###########################################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: :Copyright: LGPLv3
.. :X-man-page-only: :Manual section: 7

Overview
========
This derived plugin periodically polls Linux ``sysfs`` for the state of a battery.

It is also able to estimate the time remaining to full charge/discharge and
the current battery consumption rate.

Functions
=========
The following functions are provided:

* ``widget(tbl)``

    Constructs a ``widget`` table required by luastatus. ``tbl`` is a table with the following
    fields:

    **(required)**

    - ``cb``: function

        The callback that will be called with a table with the following keys:

        + ``status``: string

            A string with battery status text, e.g. ``"Full"``, ``"Unknown"``, ``"Charging"``,
            ``"Discharging"``.

            Not present if the status cannot be read (for example, when the battery is missing).

        + ``capacity``: number

            A percentage representing battery capacity.

            Not present if the capacity cannot be read.

        + ``rem_time``: number

            Time (in hours) remaining to full charge/discharge.

            Usually only present on battery charge/discharge.

        + ``consumption``: number

            The current battery consumption/charge rate in watts.

            Usually only present on battery charge/discharge.

    **(optional)**

    - ``dev``: string

        Device directory name under ``/sys/class/power_supply``; default is ``"BAT0"``.

    - ``period``: number

        The period in seconds for polling ``sysfs``; default is 2 seconds.

        Because this plugin utilizes ``udev`` under the hood, it is able to respond to
        battery state changes (such as cable (un-)plugging) immediately, irrespective of
        the value of the period.

    - ``use_energy_full_design``: boolean

        If ``true``, the ``energy_full_design`` property (not ``energy_full``) will be used for
        capacity calculation.

    - ``event``

        The ``event`` entry of the resulting table (see ``luastatus`` documentation for the
        description of ``widget.event`` field).
