barlibs/stdout/README.rst, before:

.. :X-man-page-only: luastatus-barlib-stdout
.. :X-man-page-only: #######################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: ###########################
.. :X-man-page-only: stdout barlib for luastatus
.. :X-man-page-only: ###########################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: :Copyright: LGPLv3
.. :X-man-page-only: :Manual section: 7

Overview
========
This barlib simply writes lines to a file descriptor.

It can be used for status bars such as **dzen**/**dzen2**, **xmobar**, **yabar**, **dvtm**, and
others.

It joins all non-empty strings returned by widgets by a separator, which defaults to ``" | "``.

It does not provide functions and does not support events.

Redirections and ``luastatus-stdout-wrapper``
=============================================
Since we need to write to stdout, it is very easy to mess things up: Lua's ``print()`` prints to
stdout, processes spawned by widgets/plugins inherit our stdin and stdout, etc.

That's why this barlib requires that stdout file descriptor is manually redirected. A shell wrapper,
``luastatus-stdout-wrapper``, is shipped with it; it does all the redirections needed and executes
``luastatus`` with ``-b stdout`` and additional arguments passed by you.

``cb`` return value
===================
Either of:

* a string

    An empty string hides the widget.

* an array of strings

    Equivalent to returning a string with all non-empty elements of the array joined by the
    separator.

* ``nil``

    Hides the widget.

Options
=======
The following options are supported:

* ``out_fd=<fd>``

   File descriptor to write to. Usually set by the wrapper.

* ``separator=<string>``

   Set the separator.

* ``error=<string>``

   Set the content of an "error" segment. Defaults to ``"(Error)"``.

Commit message:

barlibs/stdout: add rudimentary support for events

barlibs/stdout/README.rst, after:

.. :X-man-page-only: luastatus-barlib-stdout
.. :X-man-page-only: #######################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: ###########################
.. :X-man-page-only: stdout barlib for luastatus
.. :X-man-page-only: ###########################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: :Copyright: LGPLv3
.. :X-man-page-only: :Manual section: 7

Overview
========
This barlib simply writes lines to a file descriptor.

It can be used for status bars such as **dzen**/**dzen2**, **xmobar**, **yabar**, **dvtm**, and
others.

It joins all non-empty strings returned by widgets by a separator, which defaults to ``" | "``.

It does not provide functions.

Redirections and ``luastatus-stdout-wrapper``
=============================================
Since we need to write to stdout, it is very easy to mess things up: Lua's ``print()`` prints to
stdout, processes spawned by widgets/plugins inherit our stdin and stdout, etc.

That's why this barlib requires that stdout file descriptor is manually redirected. A shell wrapper,
``luastatus-stdout-wrapper``, is shipped with it; it does all the redirections needed and executes
``luastatus`` with ``-b stdout`` and additional arguments passed by you.

``cb`` return value
===================
Either of:

* a string

    An empty string hides the widget.

* an array of strings

    Equivalent to returning a string with all non-empty elements of the array joined by the
    separator.

* ``nil``

    Hides the widget.

Options
=======
The following options are supported:

* ``out_fd=<fd>``

   File descriptor to write to. Usually set by the wrapper.

* ``separator=<string>``

   Set the separator.

* ``error=<string>``

   Set the content of an "error" segment. Defaults to ``"(Error)"``.

* ``in_filename=<string>``

   Enable event watcher.
   If specified, this barlib will open the specified filename for reading
   and will read lines from it. Each line will be treated as an event.
   The barlib will not try to interpret the content of the line; instead, the event
   will be broadcast to all widgets. Thus, if this option is used, it is the
   responsibility of each widget (that listens to the events) to check if the event
   is somehow related to it.
   The path should normally refer to a FIFO or be a file descriptor specifier
   like ``/proc/self/fd/9``.

``event`` argument
==================
Events are only reported if ``in_filename=`` option was specified (see above).
In this case, the argument is the line that was read from the specified file,
without the trailing newline character.
