plugins/dbus/README.rst, before:

.. :X-man-page-only: luastatus-plugin-dbus
.. :X-man-page-only: #####################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: ##########################
.. :X-man-page-only: D-Bus plugin for luastatus
.. :X-man-page-only: ##########################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: :Copyright: LGPLv3
.. :X-man-page-only: :Manual section: 7

Overview
========
This plugin subscribes to D-Bus signals.

Options
========
The following options are supported:

* ``greet``: boolean

  Whether or not a first call to ``cb`` with ``what="hello"`` should be made as soon as the
  widget starts. Defaults to false.

* ``timeout``: number

  If specified and not negative, this plugin calls ``cb`` with ``what="timeout"`` if no D-Bus
  signal has been received in ``timeout`` seconds.

* ``signals``: array of tables

Array of tables with the following entries (all are optional):

- ``sender``: string

  Sender name to match on (unique or well-known name).

- ``interface``: string

  D-Bus interface name to match on.

- ``signal``: string

  D-Bus signal name to match on.

- ``object_path``: string

  Object path to match on.

- ``arg0``: string

  Contents of the first string argument to match on.

- ``flags``: array of strings

  The following flags are recognized:

  + ``"match_arg0_namespace"``

    Match first arguments that contain a bus or interface name with the given namespace.

    + ``"match_arg0_path"``

    Match first arguments that contain an object path that is either equivalent to the
    given path, or one of the paths is a subpath of the other.

    - ``bus``: string

      Specify the bus to subscribe to the signal on: either ``"system"`` or ``"session"``;
      default is ``"session"``.

``cb`` argument
===============
A table with a ``what`` entry.

* If ``what`` is ``"hello"``, this is the first call to ``cb`` (only if the ``greet`` option was
  set to ``true``).

* It ``what`` is ``"timeout"``, a signal has not been received for the number of seconds specified
  as the ``timeout`` option.

* If ``what`` is ``"signal"``, a signal has been received. In this case, the table has the
  following additional entries:

  - ``bus``: string

    Either ``"session"`` or ``"system"``.

  - ``sender``: string

    Unique sender name.

  - ``object_path``: string

    Object path.

  - ``interface``: string

    D-Bus interface name.

  - ``signal``: string

    Signal name.

  - ``parameters``: *D-Bus object*

    Signal arguments.

D-Bus objects
=============
D-Bus objects are marshalled as follows:

.. rst2man does not support tables with headers, so let's just use bold.

+-----------------------+------------------------+
| **D-Bus object type** | **Lua representation** |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| boolean               | boolean                |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| byte, int16, uint16,  | string                 |
| int32, uint32, int64, |                        |
| uint64                |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| double                | number                 |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| string, object path,  | string                 |
| signature             |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| maybe                 | as-is, or as a         |
|                       | special object with    |
|                       | value ``"nothing"``    |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| handle                | special object with    |
|                       | value ``"handle"``     |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| array, tuple, dict    | array                  |
| entry                 |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------+

If an object cannot be marshalled, a special object with an error is generated instead.

Special objects
===============
Special objects represent D-Bus objects that cannot be marshalled to Lua.

A special object is a function that, when called, returns either of:

* value;
* ``nil``, error.

Functions
=========
The following functions are provided:

* ``luastatus.plugin.get_property(params)``

  Get D-Bus property associated with an interface. ``params`` must be a table
  with the following values:

  - ``bus`` (string): the bus to use: either ``"system"`` or ``"session"``.

  - ``object_path`` (string): the path to the object to get a property of.

  - ``prop_owner`` (string): the name of the interface.

  - ``prop_name`` (string): the name of the property.

  - ``flag_no_autostart`` (boolean, optional): whether to pass
    ``G_DBUS_CALL_FLAGS_NO_AUTO_START`` flag (which means don't launch an
    owner for the destination name in response to this method invocation).

    Defaults to false.

  - ``timeout`` (number, optional): timeout to wait for the reply for, in seconds.
    Default is to use the proxy default timeout.
    Pass ``math.huge`` to wait forever.

  On success, returns ``true, result``, where ``result`` is unmarshalled
  as described in section `D-Bus objects`_.

  On failure, returns ``false, err_msg, err_code``.

* ``luastatus.plugin.get_all_propertes(params)``

  Get all D-Bus properties associated with an inteface. ``params`` must be the
  same as to ``get_property``, except that ``prop_name`` should not be set.

  On success, returns ``true, result``, where ``result`` is the result of
  the ``GetAll`` call, unmarshalled as described in section `D-Bus objects`_.
  It looks like this::

    {{{"Property1", "Value1"}, {"Property2", "Value2"}}}

  On failure, returns ``false, err_msg, err_code``.

Commit message:

plugins/dbus: add dest parameter, rename prop_owner

plugins/dbus/README.rst, after:

.. :X-man-page-only: luastatus-plugin-dbus
.. :X-man-page-only: #####################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: ##########################
.. :X-man-page-only: D-Bus plugin for luastatus
.. :X-man-page-only: ##########################
.. :X-man-page-only:
.. :X-man-page-only: :Copyright: LGPLv3
.. :X-man-page-only: :Manual section: 7

Overview
========
This plugin subscribes to D-Bus signals.

Options
========
The following options are supported:

* ``greet``: boolean

  Whether or not a first call to ``cb`` with ``what="hello"`` should be made as soon as the
  widget starts. Defaults to false.

* ``timeout``: number

  If specified and not negative, this plugin calls ``cb`` with ``what="timeout"`` if no D-Bus
  signal has been received in ``timeout`` seconds.

* ``signals``: array of tables

Array of tables with the following entries (all are optional):

- ``sender``: string

  Sender name to match on (unique or well-known name).

- ``interface``: string

  D-Bus interface name to match on.

- ``signal``: string

  D-Bus signal name to match on.

- ``object_path``: string

  Object path to match on.

- ``arg0``: string

  Contents of the first string argument to match on.

- ``flags``: array of strings

  The following flags are recognized:

  + ``"match_arg0_namespace"``

    Match first arguments that contain a bus or interface name with the given namespace.

    + ``"match_arg0_path"``

    Match first arguments that contain an object path that is either equivalent to the
    given path, or one of the paths is a subpath of the other.

    - ``bus``: string

      Specify the bus to subscribe to the signal on: either ``"system"`` or ``"session"``;
      default is ``"session"``.

``cb`` argument
===============
A table with a ``what`` entry.

* If ``what`` is ``"hello"``, this is the first call to ``cb`` (only if the ``greet`` option was
  set to ``true``).

* It ``what`` is ``"timeout"``, a signal has not been received for the number of seconds specified
  as the ``timeout`` option.

* If ``what`` is ``"signal"``, a signal has been received. In this case, the table has the
  following additional entries:

  - ``bus``: string

    Either ``"session"`` or ``"system"``.

  - ``sender``: string

    Unique sender name.

  - ``object_path``: string

    Object path.

  - ``interface``: string

    D-Bus interface name.

  - ``signal``: string

    Signal name.

  - ``parameters``: *D-Bus object*

    Signal arguments.

D-Bus objects
=============
D-Bus objects are marshalled as follows:

.. rst2man does not support tables with headers, so let's just use bold.

+-----------------------+------------------------+
| **D-Bus object type** | **Lua representation** |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| boolean               | boolean                |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| byte, int16, uint16,  | string                 |
| int32, uint32, int64, |                        |
| uint64                |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| double                | number                 |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| string, object path,  | string                 |
| signature             |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| maybe                 | as-is, or as a         |
|                       | special object with    |
|                       | value ``"nothing"``    |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| handle                | special object with    |
|                       | value ``"handle"``     |
+-----------------------+------------------------+
| array, tuple, dict    | array                  |
| entry                 |                        |
+-----------------------+------------------------+

If an object cannot be marshalled, a special object with an error is generated instead.

Special objects
===============
Special objects represent D-Bus objects that cannot be marshalled to Lua.

A special object is a function that, when called, returns either of:

* value;
* ``nil``, error.

Functions
=========
The following functions are provided:

* ``luastatus.plugin.get_property(params)``

  Get D-Bus property associated with an interface. ``params`` must be a table
  with the following values:

  - ``bus`` (string): the bus to use: either ``"system"`` or ``"session"``.

  - ``dest`` (string): a unique or well-known name of the owner of the property.

  - ``object_path`` (string): the path to the object to get a property of.

  - ``prop_iface`` (string): the name of the interface.

  - ``prop_name`` (string): the name of the property.

  - ``flag_no_autostart`` (boolean, optional): whether to pass
    ``G_DBUS_CALL_FLAGS_NO_AUTO_START`` flag (which means don't launch an
    owner for the destination name in response to this method invocation).

    Defaults to false.

  - ``timeout`` (number, optional): timeout to wait for the reply for, in seconds.
    Default is to use the proxy default timeout.
    Pass ``math.huge`` to wait forever.

  On success, returns ``true, result``, where ``result`` is unmarshalled
  as described in section `D-Bus objects`_.

  On failure, returns ``false, err_msg, err_code``.

* ``luastatus.plugin.get_all_propertes(params)``

  Get all D-Bus properties associated with an inteface. ``params`` must be the
  same as to ``get_property``, except that ``prop_name`` should not be set.

  On success, returns ``true, result``, where ``result`` is the result of
  the ``GetAll`` call, unmarshalled as described in section `D-Bus objects`_.
  It looks like this::

    {{{"Property1", "Value1"}, {"Property2", "Value2"}}}

  On failure, returns ``false, err_msg, err_code``.
